[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neo.com
I'm your host Dylan Grabowski in this
episode we were joined by Meg liser the
general manager at Grant laabs at
gitcoin today we spoke about the success
rates that grant funding has over other
forms of funding such as loans or seed
Capital the expansion of gitcoin sole
focus on ethereum to evm networks more
broadly gcoins transition from 1.0 to
2.0 and the concurrency between the
entities centralized and decentralized
processes quadratic funding and pool
contributors and so much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any Tok
tokens and that nothing should be taken
as Financial advice the host or guests
May hold tokens discussed in any given
episode and you can check out a
disclaimer on
www.newsday.com I also want to give you
a heads up and let you know that we
experienced some technical difficulties
today with internet connection so please
bear with us if there are any parts that
seemed choppy or disjointed regardless I
really enjoyed this conversation with
Meg and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too hey everyone welcome to
the smart economy podcast today we're
joined by Meg listi the general manager
at Grants laabs at gitcoin a platform
that is helped served to disseminate
grant funding to more than 4,000
projects how you doing today Meg I'm
great thanks so much for having me on
today Dylan to kind of give folks like
some insights into who you are how you
think why why getcoin operates the way
it does I want to jump off into kind of
like a higher 10,000 foot level question
and that's how can decentralized
blockchain networks and cryptocurrencies
help to create a more fair Equitable and
just world yeah um thanks so much for
keeping us off with a thought for boking
question um and also going right to the
heart of the reason why I'm in crypto to
begin with um and hopefully many of your
listeners are too um I think that
blackchain networks um have a huge role
to play not because they are inherently
um I'll call it like better or unbiased
or anything like that um but because
they are so transparent and transparency
and public open accessible data is the
heart of accountability in my mind um
which is the building block for building
more fair just and Equitable systems I
love that um before I was in the
cryptospace I was an urban planner and I
worked for a Department of
Transportation and we had funding
earmarked specifically for like native
tribes so that they could build roads
and connect to highways and a lot of the
tribes in the bay area which is where I
was working um before I went into the
crypto space they didn't want to deal
with the government agency because they
just didn't there was a history of not
trusting this community or this this
group of um uh planners and the money
associated with like the state funding
so there was a lot of distrust that was
there so I love that you kind of
Leverage blockchain networks to provide
that
transparency um I guess kind of from
your experience what are the issues that
have what are the issues with like
strings that have been tied to grant
funding and the levels of lack of
transparency that have existed with this
type of funding that that has been
around before like what are some
examples you have of areas where people
might not trust where money comes from
or where it goes oh my gosh you just
seem such a powerful example Dylan um
and I don't know if I can top that but
something that will probably feel old
and familiar to all of our listeners is
that grand programs have struggled with
since their very Inception um they're
amazing on paper a government a
charitable organization a wealthy
individual says hey I'm going to donate
$50 million to cure malaria and everyone
like oh my God what an amazing idea
thank you so much for taking this on and
they earmark the money that's fantastic
and then a couple years past and people
are like hey where that go like what's
what's being done with that money anyway
um there was a scamble that hit a Boston
University Ed anti-racism program in the
fall to a very very well-known and well
respected program that it turned out was
not appropriating funds appropriately um
and um it goes to show you that it's
very hard to predict success um and
predict TR trustworthiness of both Grant
givers and Grant recipients U which kind
of brings us back to this transparency
problem um and something that I think
web 3 is really poison to solve for um
Grant giving and financial
accountability overall yeah I think I
have a clue as to what entity you're
talking about and there was a level of
um personal home buying and things of
this nature where funds were being
misappropriated but we don't need to
invite the trolls or anyone who has a a
pro or anti- stance when it comes to
this organization so we won't delve
further into that but I um I love that
this is kind of what drives you and and
why you see web 3 blockchain crypto
whatever you want to call it as like the
perfect Market fit to provide a solution
but um before we kind of like jump into
what gitcoin is gitcoin 2.0 and all
these great things that you guys have
learned over the years and through 20
rounds of Grant giving um rounds uh I do
want to just kind of like take a quick
step back and hear your Genesis like
what was the first time you heard about
cryptocurrencies and if you were like me
or so many others I've spoken with you
kind of like looked at it and you
thought oh cool and then didn't come
back for a few years
maybe that is your story maybe it's not
so when was the first time you heard
about Bitcoin or ethereum and then um
secondarily what was kind of like your
aha moment where it's like this is where
I need to be yeah um you know I always
tell the story and I use the disclaimer
like it's a really dumb Genesis story so
many people have like way better and
more profound aha moments um I remember
hearing about Bitcoin uh maybe 2016 or
so I was working at a ntech company and
there was a engineer on my team like I
just keep making money off of Bitcoin
like I bought some for 300 bucks and it
just keeps going up I remember looking
at it and being like this is like too
good to be true there's something weird
here and you know that was 2016 so
turned out yep uh we learned in 2017
some parts but we're too good to be true
um and you know fast forward a few years
later I'm still working at the same
antic company and I'm getting really fed
up with it I am leading a product line
there and just feeling like the way that
I am Building Product um I'm trying to
do the right thing by small businesses
and help them succeed and grow but the
way that I'm doing this the way that the
adtech industry inherently respects its
users its users data it's user privacy
are just really not values aligned for
me anymore um and it was Co summer and
so I was ready to blow up my life anyway
um and a Fred was like Hey if you're
really looking for change if you really
want to blow some stuff up why don't you
look at crypto um and so I was like he
yeah what the hell um I joined a a
crypto analytics company called Flipside
crypto um to build and Lead their
product team um and that was a
phenomenal experience working with that
team um and I started building you know
data products in ways that were really
fun and exciting and still I got like
six months into F job and I was like I
don't really get crypto like I'm working
with crypto data but I don't like get
the industry I don't get why everyone's
so excited about this it's like Bland
adcheck at this point um and then I was
like okay I need to snap out of this F
so I joined a dow um and this is
probably early
2021 and so Dow tokens are pumping
everybody's throwing money around it's a
joyful time to be spending a lot of
money and not seeing the repercussions
um but what it's it was also doing was
just drawing a time of passionate and
like-minded people together particularly
on the Dow scene and people who were
champions of the ideals that you and I
started discussing and that's when it
really clicked for me like we have
really powerful tools at our disposal we
have really passion of people who want
to change the world um and there's a
really healthy you know vend ver almost
a Nikki guy um that's set up uh that's
set up here yeah and so when you um you
studied in school philosophy and
Environmental Studies which is a very
much like ethics Mission oriented kind
of field so do you think that that now
at gitcoin you finally found your eeky
guy you found your your why I'm here and
uh maybe for folks who uh are in school
right now or just graduated um what was
like that path like did you find that
when you were at the adte company that
you were just kind of grinding through
it or did you find that as like a
valuable life experience to help you
realize that where you are today is
where you wanted to work toward yeah oh
that's such a fascinating question um I
have to start off by being like look I'm
a philosopy major and I have a job like
we're we can't be productive and
successful out in the world um you know
I graduated from college and in the US
um a couple months before you graduate
if you've taken out student alans they H
you into classroom and they pass you out
a packet that shows how much money you
want the government how long it's going
to take you off and how much you pay
every month and I sat in that room going
holy um I was picturing a nice life
after graduation like I was going to buy
myself flowers um and so I I scrapped uh
my dreams pretty quickly of teaching or
working at a nonprofit um and got into
Tech purely for financial reasons um and
was very grateful that I wound up loving
um a lot of my early experiences in Tech
and in large part because I had a number
of just amazing um women-led teams and
female mentors that shaped my career and
my experience in the workplace early on
um and I honestly L the attech company
um just best run most human Centric
organization I've ever worked it's
company out of Austin called wstream um
and what I learned in probably the first
10 years of my career was that it was
actually really healthy um to separate
my passions from my work a little bit um
and that I have a lot of uh call them
like intense type Tendencies and I think
a lot of us who are driven and
successful the small Jew um and marrying
that with a passion project can be
really dangerous for your well-being um
and it was it was really healthy for me
to maintain a little bit of Separation
there um and I do think that that's you
know I love my role at gcoin I'm so
passionate about what we're doing and um
having that passion be closely tied to
my work is also a little bit of a
struggle um in terms of the way that I
appropriately balance my work in my life
and sleep enough and exercise and enough
and eat the right foods and all of that
stuff that our human bodies demand yeah
and even just taking a day off or a
weekend off um it's so hard to kind of
plan that into your schedule and into
your life um and and like the work life
balance can kind of creep out of whack
uh I've definitely Fallen victim to that
I've been in the space since 2018 but
you definitely you you mentioned
something that I wanted to touch on
later in the conversation but I'm
definitely psych to jump into this now
when we first launched the smart economy
podcast C in 2022 we were doing Series
so I did a defi series a dow series and
I also did a women and blockchain series
and one of the questions I asked two
years ago to all four of our awesome
women guests were do you think that web
3 is an industry that lends Credence to
a more like Fair opportunity for both
men and women to be on an even playing
field um and my thesis was that web 3 is
this industry where we go by avatars on
uh crypto Twitter we go by uh the
repositories and our contributions to
GitHub and so my theory was that this
was a more even playing field do you
find that in your experiences like is
this an industry that can be a great
equalizer yeah um no offense to prison
company because I heard this a lot and I
like vly disagree with the anonity and
Avatar Theory um I find that what that
setup creates is the default assumption
that everybody uh looks like the most
popular quote unquote Avatar in our
industry um which is frequently a
western white male um which is how the
tech field and the finance fields are
generally dominated um and there are so
many Western white men out there who I
have learn from and love working with
it's you know I don't mean to like hate
on any particular demographic but when
you take away um the like human
characteristics that you associate with
someone they in my experience you wind
up getting stereotyped even further and
a little bit awkwardly um in many
scenarios um I think that when we're
able to be much straightforward about
how we present ourselves in the world
and how we'd like to be perceived um
that is a true recipe for inclusion um
and equal Playing Fields yeah I can
imagine that if you're an anon on crypto
Twitter and you go to your first crypto
conference and meet your fans they might
be
that first interaction might be a little
awkward oh totally I am I mean I briefly
went by a semi and non-personality um on
Twitter and when I first joined Dows um
and I had a female Avatar and the um
this screen named cat jam and I uh I'm I
doxed myself for two reasons one people
kept nicknaming me cat and I that was
really
tough for the second one is everybody
kept referring to me as a he or like
being like hey Sarah and it's like I
like I have an obviously female Avatar
like that's how far the assumptions went
yeah um so I guess before we jump back
into like getcoin and and your
background what's like a good way that
people can be Advocates or uh allies or
help kind of like break that down if you
are like a western white guy like me
yeah I mean as a western white well then
um I can't say that I've got the true
recipe for Success here but um one I
think it's just being really thoughtful
about particularly when you're hiring
when you're building teams when you're
building Community um about the
perspectives and the people that you
want included in your team and your
community and deliberately seeking those
out uh we've been hiring a lot at gcoin
recently or we've been hiring a little
bit of getcoin recently um but in every
role we try to be really thoughtful
about our hiring pipelines and are we
recruiting in the right spaces to see
the diversity of Cs that we want um and
I think too just making making space
when you are working with people to
understand their perspective and their
backgrounds and giving them the space um
to articulate how they want to be uh
treated and communicated with um in your
work together cool thanks for helping me
explore this this realm of social the
social realm that is always like kind of
there in the background but sometimes
maybe people are afraid to acknowledge
or don't even think about it um so I was
definitely happy to kind of like into
this side quest um so we mentioned
doxing and I hope I'm not like doxing
what part of the world you live in but
you're in the north east so I'm just
kind of curious like do you are you
local are you active in like the local
blockchain scenes um what's that like
and your neck of the woods because here
in Colorado obviously like gitcoin was I
I don't want to say founded out of
Colorado but that's where the founders
were located and so we have quite a
robust Community here with things like e
Denver that you and announc get coin 2.0
at so um before we delve further into
the work that you do what's just kind of
like the local scene like yeah so I'm in
the DC area um and the joke is that
there's like 50 crypto fans and 500
crypto haters around here probably a
little bit more than 500 and
unfortunately many of them are apped by
the federal government um but I have to
say that being said um we do have a
small but really passionate and growing
crypto Community here um and it's no eth
jumper but we do have eth DC coming up
on May 14th um and I'm so excited to be
speaking on a panel there we've got
folks from the Bitcoin ecosystem from
the ethereum ecosystem um and uh across
both kind of dii Dow's um novel
applications of blockchain including I
think space and speak Creator economy um
so it is small but passionate and just a
fabulous place to get involved in policy
work obviously um because it is right on
our doorstep and there are a number of
people in Congress and non staff who are
looking to better understand the
industry and make a change yeah I hate
that like as Americans this has to be a
part of the conversation that we have I
mean we were on the call with our lawyer
today to talk about the doj brief that
just came out and the FBI brief about
going after custodial wallet providers
and metamask and consensus suing the and
the SEC being a rogue agency and it's it
takes away from kind of like our ability
to think about other issues uh but that
being said um I did fly out in December
with stand with crypto uh that coinbase
is helping fund oh speak yeah to to help
educate at least our legislators here in
Colorado so it's nice to hear that
there's more permanent boots on the
ground in that neck of the woods that
are advocates for this industry and and
the good that it can perform um because
there is Al there's always bad with
everything but there also needs to be
the lightness with the dark and I don't
think that that always gets conveyed so
it's fantastic to hear that you're there
you're on the ground and thatc is
actually a thing that I'd never even
heard of until just now um another
education kind of forum that you are a
part of is uh rehash so um what is
rehash it's it's a podcast but what is
what is like your level of contribution
with the entity um how does it help
disseminate information um maybe you can
shamelessly plug where people can listen
to it yeah another wonderful thing about
crypto is um the opportunity to
collaborate over compete and show
another podcast while we're recording a
podcast um but thank you so much for
that Dylan um reash is what we call the
first community-owned podcast in web
three it was started by Diana Chen who
was previously at Unstoppable domains
and um she's been prolifically recording
podcasts at Unstoppable Rabbit Hole um
across the industry and in web 2 for a
number of years um and Diana got to the
point where she was like I've recorded
hundreds of episodes and there isn't a
single one that I actually owe um and so
uh she has started rehash um and gave
herself in the community full ownership
over the podcast from the start um and
so rehash produces 12 episodes and
season somewhere between 20 10 and 12
yeah um four days of the year and and
for the topics and the guest those are
entirely guttered on by the community
and so we have a system where um anyone
who's part of the community can nominate
a guest and then anyone who holds a
rehash nft or has collected a podcast
can vote on those guests and it's
produced some absolutely fabulous
conversations it's like the real alpha
alpha rather about what crypto insiders
care about is the topics and the people
that get voted on to rehash of saer um
and uh we covered everything from defi
to uh cat Young's eth evacuations
project last week and uh it's just it I
have to say I play a very small part in
it um I do kind of operations to help di
out behind the scenes um but a fabulous
Community to be part of that's super
cool yeah I mean even with this PO I've
tried to like follow Trends and curate
the list the guests that we've had um so
like 2022 was very very much focused on
like what's the what's next for
regulations and things like that and
then 2023 was really like digging into
how Builders are collaborating with
institutions and what do the
institutions coming on board look like
so do you kind of have just like a
finger on the pulse for what the general
trend has looked like for the crypto
industry over the types of guests that
have come on or is it very much just
kind of a shotgun approach and the
community is all over the place and who
they want to hear on the Pod yeah you
know I have to in community tends to be
all over the place but in a really good
way and in a way where when you watch
the results come out you're like oh like
this is actually a fantastic uh you know
snapshot of what people are thinking
about and where the alpha is um and so
the community does uh lean a bit more
towards consumer crypto than uh and I
would say consumer crypto Dow is kind of
non-technical uh Focus versus maybe the
larger Community as a whole um we have
over the last two seasons had a lot more
defi content than usual uh which has
been a really exciting way to see oh
like defi is um actually appealing to a
wider segment of individuals again there
are some cool new Innovations coming out
in DPI and also doesn't hurt that the
Market's picking up and people tend to
be more interested in making money when
it's pumping nice are there any other
kind of like web 3 projects you're
affiliated with or associated with I'm
sure that getcoin takes up 99% % of your
time but just curious um it does right
now um I am always uh looking to get
involved with um mentorship
opportunities for women in the space and
have done that a bit in the past but not
currently awesome my girlfriend's a
mentor in the data and analytic space so
it's always fun when she gets a new grad
student to kind of help nerd out with
and guide the along the path um sweet so
I kind of want to ask like a
philosophical question about technology
right now and really kind of what's your
thesis on the significance of the
ethereum virtual machine in the
blockchain space and me working in a non
evm ecosystem I'm always curious and
fascinated to hear this the answer to
this question is evm uh a winner take
all solution oh that's so interesting um
this is another area where I um I hope
do we get to a more collaborative versus
competitive fight moving forward it does
feel like as long as um the evm have has
been around there's been uh a hot bed of
competition both um evbm and nonm and
then also within the evm itself and the
uh competition that we see in the L2
landscape right now um on some
competition in the achain landscape um I
think that there are some really
interesting developments by the S
ecosystem with neon by the Nero
ecosystem with Aurora uh polka dot and
Moonbeam to create evm compatible um
chains that will allow for more
interoperability between evm and nonm
ecosystems and I hope that the evm does
the same thing um and creates compatible
chain for other ecosystems um in my mind
it's more about the right tools for the
job um and and so the salon or the
cosmos ecosystem being an amazing fit
for like high through play consumer
crypto which may have a lower need for
trust and
decentralization um and the evm being
AIT for more uh a dow based defi based
High trust High decentralization apps um
or who knows what the winners will be on
either side um yeah I think that gitcoin
is kind of Representative of this ever
growing landscape you know if we think
like governments or even uh Bitcoin core
development things take so long to go
through um but ultimately like if you
look back they were reacting to where
the puck is going if we're going to use
the hockey term and so with gitcoin
transitioning from 1.0 to 2.0 kind of
the mission and vision of the the
ecosystem the gitcoin ecosystem is
transitioning away from let's Empower
ethereum to Let's Empower evm so you're
kind of already like going towards this
multi-chain world um so what was like
the thought process like when did
everybody at getcoin kind of like put
their head down and be like maybe we
should expand the the vision of
empowering ethereum to empowering like
this core technology that allows other
blockchain networks l1s and l2s to
become a thing yeah this predates my
time again gcoin but one of the core um
you know realizations or drivers of
gitcoin 2.0 is gitcoin had operated as
you mentioned this grants program that
benefited the ethereum ecosystem for a
couple of years um one of the very first
grants programs in ethereum actually and
it got to the point where the grants
program was growing and really
successful and other organizations that
Rec creating grants programs kept coming
to getcoin and be like hey St guys run
this thing like can you tell me how to
do it do you have any tools I can use
and the folks of K Card were like oh my
God like we're sitting on something
that's actually much bigger than the
getcoin grants programs we can help any
evm based Community uh create manage and
grow their own grants program um and we
feel really strongly about this Mission
because we believe so much in the power
of the ethereum community and in the
growth potential of web3 we see grants
programs as a key driver of that growth
and so we realized hey if we kind of
expand our Focus beyond the getcoin
grants programs into Grant programs as a
whole will increase the impact that we
have on the EDM ecosystem dramatically
well I want to just give you and your
team a shout out it's your impact goes
beyond just evm um I so my day job is in
the Neo ecosystem it's a non-m ecosystem
and we have a community funding Dow
called Grant shares and gitcoin was kind
of like the basis for how can we build
what can how can our platform look when
we want to create and distribute and
disseminate grants as well
so just just know that maybe even if
you're not having like direct
communication with other nonm ecosystems
that gitcoin is kind of like that torch
that's lighting the way and so I'm I'm
really curious to hear your perspective
on this because we've seen um like
companies and and projects and products
come through and receive grant funding
and that they usually build but maybe
they don't always take off so like what
does success look like for you with
Grant distribution because I've seen
personally that we don't have a 100%
success rate with the products that we
funded but we did give somebody a chance
we did give a team a shot and to me you
know you plant a thousand seeds and
hopefully one or two will grow so you
know personally speaking it's not a big
deal to me but um I'm just kind of
curious to hear your thoughts on that uh
about like the efficacy of Grants yeah I
you're totally right that no source of
funding is ever going to have a 100%
success rate um and one of the reason
why we get so excited about grant
funding um in particular is because
we've created this like multi-year
longitudinal study through the gine
grants program and even though we
weren't especially good at giving out
grants when we started uh we've gotten
better along the way we've increased
that success rate and what we see
looking over the last five years is that
for every uh million dollars given in
grant funding there are 13 active
developers still in the ethereum
ecosystem um which is pretty wild I mean
even if you break that down in terms of
like acquisition costs and compare that
to a developers annual salary like
that's a that's a pretty good figure and
then you contrast that with something
like VC funding there's 76 billion ver
dollars of that that have poured into
the ecosystem you get about a tenth of a
developer uh when per million dollars
when you look at that um and so nothing
is ever going to be 100% but grant
program grant funding uh rather seems to
outperform many traditional forms of
funding and that's in my opinion because
the allocators are so close to what the
community needs um and so they're
funding things that are in the
appropriate area and they're building up
kind of familiarity with the Community
Trust in the projects that they're
funding and just taking better and
better shots and goals because theyve so
much more subject matter expertise and
understanding of c community or Market
needs yeah I love that you brought that
stup it's something that actually like
really jumped out to me in the getcoin
2.0 white paper which I highly suggest
everybody go read and check out um it's
phenomenal to think that like a scrappy
little uh Grant can actually have more
of an impact than like some massive
amount of VC funding so um you kind of
touched on this but like why is that
what is what is a benefit that a grant
gives over something that might have
ties to it like a loan or uh VC funding
yeah uh so the thing that you bring up
about ties has been actually extensively
studied in web 2 and they see uh much
higher long-term impact when there are
no ties associated with a funding source
in many of these with two studies and so
the idea that you build trust with a
highly refutable individual and you give
them the has funds and discretion to
spend that money in the best way
possible um I think what's really fall
with three is that we can take this uh
further we can trust and we could also
verify um again this transparency that
we've been talking about we have new
ways to track impact metrics um to
provide you of onchain reporting about
the impact and power of the grant which
just allows us to iterate and get better
and better about our funding positions
over time um I do think that some Grant
programs index on um deliverables and
needing people to produce certain
outcomes in order to get funded which
may be a great way to build trust with
the community particularly as funding
starts to be allocated but the more that
you can in index on um outcomes and on
index on on impact the better you'll be
the more impactful you'll be cool so
before we dig into gitcoin 2.0 um I just
kind of want to give you an opportunity
to show some of the successes that have
come out of this prod uh this ecosystem
uh a lot of Crypton native name brands
have emerged because they got their
start and getcoin um I could list off
some but I kind of want to hear you uh
sh some of your favorites and and kind
of like the sources of Pride for how a
grant enabled something uh to emerge as
kind of like a household name to the
crypto native today yeah so many of the
D 1.0 players emerged from getcoin gr
program so you know little guys like
uniswap and wage um were getcoin Grant
recipients back in day um there's also
individuals uh like Zack xpt who does
fabulous uh reporting and investigative
journalism got their start via the
getcoin grants program um and I can't
wait to see what super Superstars come
out of this in the next cycle I did not
know that Zach had his uh his Genesis
with uh support from gitcoin I think
he's an invaluable service to the crypto
industry and I think I've even seen like
portions of his research being used in
like Federal indictments or something
like that I think
so and um all goes to show that he
should be well compensative for his work
absolutely um should not be doing work
for free so before we kind of like dig
in further to like the work that you do
specifically with uh Grant laabs can you
just highlight like what the major
migration or shift was from gitcoin 1.0
to gitcoin 2.0 yeah so gitcoin .0 was
really defined by our core grants
program and so getcoin was giving grants
to the ethereum ecosystem and only
giving up grants using a quadratic
funding mechanism which is an awesome
mechanism it was developed by vitalic
uterin and elen while in a awesome white
paper back in 2019 or so but it's far
from the only mechanism for Grants
funding um and so gcoin 2.0 is defined
by the multiple types of grant funding
mechanisms that we offer so not only
quadratic funding but retro public goods
funding direct grants um exploring many
other funding mechanisms at the moment
too um it is available not just for
ethereum ecosystem but any evbm
compatible chain uh in the E community
and the lastar TR is that it's
decentralized gqu underwent an internal
transformation from a centralized
Corporation into a dow um in 2021 and
while that has been quite a transition
um it's really strengthened the
community and the participation in in
gqu awesome and um that was a fantastic
uh description and I just kind of want
to take a step back and and provide like
a definition for someone who's listening
to the show who might not have ever
contributed to getcoin or even a grants
distribution platform can you just kind
of like eli5 or elevator pitch what
quadratic funding is yeah quadratic
funding is a democratic way of
Distributing funding so the core idea is
that whoever is um being the primary
funding funder of the grant creates a
matching pool and so if I'm fending
grants and I've got a million dollars to
spend instead of deciding myself how I'm
going to allocate a million dollars
between 25 different projects instead
I'm going to create a matching pool and
I'll set eligibility criteria for who
qualifies for the matching Rule and I'll
make sure that I'm accepting or
rejecting applications because I know
kind of the parameters of how I want the
money to be spent but I'm actually going
to trust a community or a larger group
of decision makers to allocate those
funds appropriately and so just to give
you a totally random example maybe I'm
uh supporting open source software in
web 3 and so I put my million dollars up
and I accept maybe a couple hundred
programs into the round and I like the
etherum community as a whole decide how
my million dollars should be allocated
and one of the superpowers of quadratic
funding is people actually vote with
their dollars and so if I'm a supporter
of a couple of different projects I'm
going to donate $2 to one of them and $5
to another and $10 to another and those
votes count or those donations rather
count as votes towards the projects that
should be receiving funding and there's
a formula in quadratic funding that
takes the square root of the donation
amount as the number of votes cast
towards that project which prevents a
super wealthy donor from swaying V count
dramatically MH and so uh I love
quadratic funding because my $5 can
sometimes be worth 5x that when I'm
contrib contributing to a project that I
really want to see uh Thrive and survive
and grow um so on the other half of that
who like what are the types of entities
that are contributing this million
dollars or whatever to this pool are you
finding is it like wealthy whales that
were ethic contributors is it like
existing um industries that have been
around for you know 50 plus years is it
a combination of both who are the types
of donors yeah so in the example I gave
for the gitcoin granch open source
software maging pool um we received
contributions from people who basically
care about the thriving um of innovation
in the ethereum ecosystem itself and so
these could be wellestablished projects
that are uh donating because they think
that they're going to fuel Innovation
people actually building on top of their
projects or people who are building
infrastructure and tooling that people
building in their ecosystems are going
to need one of the great things about
the ethereum community is there's a
strong feeling of a rising tide lips all
boats um and that Rising tide is the
innovation of the open source software
grants program there are many other
people too who decide to find a matching
pool themselves um and to actually be
Grant operators in the same way gitcoin
is a grant operator and so a lot of the
ones that we see today are um
organizations with large tokenized
treasuries who looking for growth so
there L2 there are defi protocols um
there are some of the emergent um
organizations that are about to release
a token and want to engage the community
and grow uh their ecosystem after token
launch um lots of other emerging
ecosystems too that are right for
Innovation and development like dpen or
like gamey as well so who are some of
the like uh partner ecosystems I noticed
uh like arbitrum kind of has
uh are they affiliated with the current
gitcoin grants round are they kind of
doing their own thing um can you just
kind of like explain how like an L2 or
another ecosystem might be able to
piggyback off of what getcoin is doing
yeah um so the answer to your question
is yes both of them um arbitr is both
participating in the current round as
well as doing many of their own funding
rounds through getcoin um and they are
providing uh matching funds to uh small
Grant rounds that are running on
arbitrum and so many of our community
rounds receive funding both from gitcoin
um from their own treasuries and then
also from the arbitrum community um
arbitrum has also run many of its own
grants rounds through gitcoin as have um
other l2s in the space as well so I
think maybe the the grants rounds might
have been a decision before your time at
getcoin but can you just kind of share
from a higher level perspective why
we're at why we're doing grant rounds
right now um as at the time of recording
we're currently going through gg20 right
now so clearly it's a structure that
gitcoin likes and wants to continue
using so can you just kind of like share
the Genesis of why there are grants
rounds yeah so um the reason that we do
these on a regular basis is that we want
to provide a a predictable source of
funding um for projects that are
innovating in the space and so we're now
running the open source software round
once every six months um to give people
time to make progress and show impact um
as well as providing a home for
Community rounds which are rounds that
qualified to receive funding both from
gitcoin and from their own treasuries um
quarterly about four times a year
awesome um so what is like the are can
you share any insights into the types of
projects or the types of folks who have
been and submitting for funding in gg20
yeah so we have some awesome
participants in the open source software
round and I believe we have almost 300
accepted projects um which is fantastic
and so one category that we're trying
this uh around for the first time is
hackathon Winners and so people who have
successfully completed a hackathon and
are looking to take their idea for the
next stage there's a dedicated pull of
funding for them and we have about 30
awesome projects um in that pool that
I'm really excited about yeah that's
super cool I uh have participated as a
judge and a panelist in um a handful of
hackathons and it's so unfortunate when
you see an amazing idea kind of just
like flounder away because they didn't
have any ongoing support um so this kind
of ties into a larger theme I think and
there's there's so much that money can
do but there's support in terms of
Technical Resources knowledge and things
like that so is there other tools in the
pipeline that gitcoin helps offer for in
this particular instance when we're
talking about hackathon projects are
there other resources like subject
matter experts or industry veterans Who
Um can help walk a fledgling project
through the initial stages from idation
to seed to MVP that's such a great Point
um money is one of you know a handful of
things that a project um or an
entrepreneur needs to succeed right now
getcoin wants to get really good at what
we're calling Capital allocation um or
smart and effective ways of Distributing
funding to different projects um and
we'd always love to partner with
organizations they looking to provide
other sources of support for franches
one of the great things about the grants
program is that it not only delivers
money to projects but it also delivers a
strong signal to the community about
what projects are up incomers and should
be recipience of additional funding or
support um and so some of that kind of
naturally occurs as an output of the
grants program but we'd always be
interested in partnering with anybody
who's offering other forms of support to
our grantees and you might have
mentioned this in one of the few times
we got cut off in the conversation today
but um with gitcoin 2.0 there was kind
of like uh there was a focus on a dow
and then from what I've been able to
gather Grant laabs is kind of like the
more centralized institution um so can
you just uh maybe re uh highlight or
maybe share a little bit more about the
relationship between the Dao and Labs
yeah that's a great question um we like
many Dows over the time has found that
some activities work really well in a
Bottoms Up Community run format and some
activities do not um it's no surprise
that many ecosystems have tried to of
separate the activities that go into
governance and Community engagement with
the activities that go into product
development um and so Grant laabs is a
member of the Dow and a contributor to
the Dow but we operate a little bit
differently um than some of the other
Dow activities and so we have a small
agile team that is funded by the Dow and
accountable by the Dow um but works on a
more kind of traditional business
structure and houses some of our quote
unquote traditional business functions
cool um and so what's kind of like uh
beyond that what's the relationship does
the dowo kind of Drive the the vision
and the mission of labs or is Labs kind
of you know it's assumed that this is
going to be an autonomous entity that is
just going to act on beh on the on the
Goodwill on behalf of the projects that
are seeking funding of The Da and
anything else that's associated are you
guys kind of like given free reign uh to
operate given the understanding that
you're going to be good actors on behalf
of everything in the getcoin ecosystem
yeah just like we're talking about with
grants funding the principle here is
trust but verify and so all of the
groups that are funded and empowered by
the Dow should assume a high degree of
ownership and autonomy over their work
um but what is so key is keeping
Community updated seeking Community
feedback um and Reporting back and
ultimately being held accountable for
results by the community which in our
case is the GTC token holders awesome
and so is is gg20 the first grants round
with this new uh structure of labs and
DOW oh it's actually a great example of
a really collaborative effort across
Labs Dow and Community um and so la Labs
has assumed kind of operational
oversight over the program um and we
make the process and the schedule and
push the buttons the Dow is responsible
for Community engagement um and grantee
and donor happiness and then the
community actually has really large
strategic oversight over the program and
so the community uh we elected a council
this season that was responsible for
allocating funds towards all of the
community rounds uh that were selected
to run as part of the gcoin grants
program yeah so I guess it's maybe a
little too soon to ask if there are any
kind of like aha moments or key Lessons
Learned oh like everything in Del life
um everything seems really exciting and
then you get into it and you realize
that it's a lot of the same boring
lessons that we've learned otherwise um
and so in our case we're still learning
a lot about how to FS communicate and
collaborate across groups we of course
want to encourage the ownership and
autonomy that I was talking you about
but uh maintain really strong
communication um so that both or all uh
parts of the organization are
understanding how each other are driving
towards our shared Vision awesome and so
I also wanted to touch upon the aloe
protocol it's an open source protocol
that enables groups to transparently
allocate pooled Capital so is aloe kind
of a thing that gitcoin was working on
before 2.0 is it the result of this uh
New Era of gitcoin uh maybe if I'm
completely off basis you could just
share what Alo protocol is and how it
fits into the whole getcoin ecosystem
umbrella yeah so Alo protocol is um kind
of the foundational layer of our product
offering it's what our app is built on
which is what our program uses to fund
Grant
um and so Al protocol is what we call a
capital
allocation um P intented there protocol
where anyone can develop a strategy for
allocating resources um to a particular
group or set of groups um using uh
mechanisms that they choose like we
talked earlier about quadratic fending
retroactive public goods funding or
Bolder voting or even just direct grants
um and so while we are kind of the first
and early users of protocol our
long-term goal is that many
organizations are developing their own
strategies and their own apps on top of
it and creating conv ecosystem of
capital allocation and so by the time
this episode airs uh gg20 will be over
but obviously we're on the 20th round so
there will be more um who are the folks
that should be interested in looking
towards future rounds who do you who do
you guys want to hear from are there
types of projects or Builders or
entities that you're seeking to
incentivize um what's just kind of like
the general who should be applying yeah
so next time we run it will be a totally
Community focused round um and what this
means is that communities will um pledge
a certain amount of funding from their
own treasury which can be a dollar or
more and gitcoin will pledge to match
that with up to
$25,000 and so this is the community
elected cancer that I talked about
that's deciding which organizations
qualify for the matching funds and so
I'm not part of the council um there the
council is made up entirely of non-core
contributors to the gcoin Dow um and so
I can't speak to what they want to fund
but I'd be really excited if the output
uh was around funding uh innovation in
the ethereum ecosystem particularly
around account obstruction or multiun
tooling um or journalism um which is one
of the things that I think is
underfunded in uh the community
generally yeah I agree so kind of like
uh wrapping up and zooming out uh
getcoin 2.0 was announced at eth Denver
so what was the reception like um and
it's now been two and a half months
since eth Denver so has that kind of
excitement that came from that reception
has it has it carried forward has it has
it remained strong what's kind of like
the the three months in uh perspective
yeah oh my gosh I can't believe it's
been three months um we have all been so
excited about getcoin to point out
um and about our shared uh vision for
the future we are in the process of
doing a doing the hard work to be it qu
2.0 a reality um and so that's the
unglamorous work behind the stream well
behind the scenes of setting our goals
and strategies to accomplish that um and
I'm so excited about the progress that
te has made I feel like we are um
aligned in a way that we haven't been
before and moving with an urgency that
we haven't seen before
and having this shared vision and
Northstar which is not to say that
everything's easy you're going smoothly
but if it was easy everybody would be
doing it and I feel like I've asked a
lot of pointed questions about getcoin
2.0 and and a lot of the work that
you've done but I'm curious is there
something that I haven't asked is there
something that is significant to you
that hasn't been brought up in these uh
in the questions I've been uh asking you
oh you've had such wonderful and
thoughtful questions um
and I don't think I have anything to add
to your list not a problem at all then
so kind of like uh looking forward you
know in crypto we're always looking for
the next thing so what's on the road map
for you guys what's on the road map for
grant laabs for gitcoin for the Dow
anything that you can share yeah well uh
we're looking forward to meeting a bunch
of um friends and customers at epct this
summer um thinking about uh some live
inperson quadratic funding events summer
um looking forward to to some uh
mechanism Evolution that I mentioned
earlier introducing new ways to fund
grants um and it's really bringing our
product from good to great um we
launched this product last summer and
it's in a thought where hey we've
resolved a lot of bags and we've
polished it up a little bit but we have
the opportunity to really turn it into
something great and that makes very
excited well Meg This was um a
fascinating conversation I was really
excited to have uh not just you join the
Pod but to also catch up with what's
been going on with gitcoin the last time
I interviewed anyone from gitcoin was a
couple years ago so it's been fantastic
to see the growth that has happened with
the team and the ecosystem So for
anybody who has gotten psyched on
listening to this today and they want to
build and they want to start their
project and they want to go after some
gitcoin funding what's the best way that
folks can connect with you or connect
with the gitcoin um ecosystem in general
yeah well you can always find us on
Twitter or farter um I'm at mag Wester
on Twitter at km on foraster and getcoin
is at gitcoin in both places um you can
also find out about grant opportunities
at explorer. gitcoin doco you're looking
to apply for funding or get connected to
ecosystems that are looking for you um
and I'm looking forward to seeing
everyone on the internet and in the
grants ecosystem awesome Meg thank you
so much for taking the time to join us
today um um I also want to give kudos to
dealing with the technical difficulties
that we've gone through it's definitely
going to uh up our chops in both being a
podcast guest and a podcast host I
really appreciate everything oh thanks
so much to you for doing the same well
what did you think of that conversation
I thought it was fascinating to hear
more about gcoins logitudinal study and
how they found that grant funding can
have a higher success rate for developer
retention even compared to billions and
billions of dollars that were
contributed through VCS I also really
enjoyed learning more about Meg's
perspective on finding a career in an
industry that is more Mission aligned
with the individual and it was also
super cool to hear more about Meg's
extracurricular activities not only with
the rehash podcast but also with local
initiatives in Washington DC to keep up
to date with the podcast head over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and if you
like the guests that we've had on the
show please consider showing your
support by giving the show a rating a
thumbs up and a review on your favorite
podcasting platform every rate review
and like helps us get the smart economy
podcast in front of more ears and eyes
and of course if you're a neot toen
holder please consider voting for Neo
news today as your Council
representative we have proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since 2017 and
will continue to do so by putting
portions of our Council rewards directly
back into ecosystem growth initiatives
with all that said I want to thank you
so much for giving us the time to listen
to the smart economy podcast and we're
already looking forward to catching you
on the next episode